docs.netapp.com


Active IQ Unified Manager 9.13







Job details page


08/18/2021
Contributors





The Job details page enables you to view status and other information about specific protection job tasks that are running, that are queued, or that have completed. You can use this information to monitor protection job progress and to troubleshoot job failures.




Job summary


The job summary displays the following information:




Job ID


Type


State


Submitted Time


Completed Time


Duration






Command buttons


The command buttons enable you to perform the following tasks:




Refresh

Refreshes the task list and the properties associated with each task.



View Jobs

Returns you to the Jobs page.







Job tasks list


The Job tasks list displays in a table all the tasks associated with a specific job and the properties related to each task.




Started Time

Displays the day and time the task started. By default, the most recent tasks are displayed at the top of the column and older tasks are displayed at the bottom.



Type

Displays the type of task.



State

The state of a particular task:




Completed

The task has finished.



Queued

The task is about to run.



Running

The task is running.



Waiting

A job has been submitted and some associated tasks are waiting to be queued and executed.






Status

Displays the task status:




Error ()

The task failed.



Normal ()

The task succeeded.



Skipped ()

A task failed, resulting in subsequent tasks being skipped.






Duration

Displays the elapsed time since the task began.



Completed Time

Displays the time the task completed. By default, this column is hidden.



Task ID

Displays the GUID that identifies an individual task for a job. The column can be sorted and filtered. By default, this column is hidden.



Dependency order

Displays an integer representing the sequence of tasks in a graph, with zero being assigned to the first task. By default, this column is hidden.



Task Details pane

Displays additional information about each job task, including the task name, task description, and, if the task failed, a reason for the failure.



Task Messages pane

Displays messages specific to the selected task. Messages might include a reason for the error and suggestions for resolving it. Not all tasks display task messages.