docs.netapp.com


Active IQ Unified Manager 9.13







Protocol and port requirements


03/23/2023
Contributors
  










The required ports and protocols enable communication between the Unified Manager server and the managed storage systems, servers, and other components.




Connections to the Unified Manager server


In typical installations you do not have to specify port numbers when connecting to the Unified Manager web UI, because default ports are always used. For example, because Unified Manager always attempts to run on its default port, you can enter https://<host> instead of https://<host>:443.


The Unified Manager server uses specific protocols to access the following interfaces:










Interface
Protocol
Port
Description





Unified Manager web UI


HTTP


80


Used to access the Unified Manager web UI; automatically redirects to the secure port 443.




Unified Manager web UI and programs using APIs


HTTPS


443


Used to securely access the Unified Manager web UI or to make API calls; API calls can only be made using HTTPS.




Maintenance console


SSH/SFTP


22


Used to access the maintenance console and retrieve support bundles.




Linux command line


SSH/SFTP


22


Used to access the Red Hat Enterprise Linux or CentOS command line and retrieve support bundles.




Syslog


UDP


514


Used to access subscription-based EMS messages from ONTAP systems and to create events based on the messages.




REST


HTTPS


9443


Used to access realtime REST API-based EMS events from authenticated ONTAP systems.




MySQL database


MySQL


3306


Used to enable OnCommand Workflow Automation and OnCommand API Services access to Unified Manager.












The default port for MySQL, 3306, is restricted only to localhost while installing Unified Manager on Windows systems. Enable the firewall to restrict access for the port MySQL, 3306, once the installation is complete. This does not impact any upgrade scenario, where the previous configuration is maintained. This configuration can be modified, and the connection can be made available to other hosts by using the Control access to MySQL port 3306 option on the maintenance console. For information, see Additional menu options. The ports used for HTTP and HTTPS communication (ports 80 and 443) can be changed using the Unified Manager maintenance console. For more information, see Configuring Active IQ Unified Manager.








Connections from the Unified Manager server


You should configure your firewall to open ports that enable communication between the Unified Manager server and managed storage systems, servers, and other components. If a port is not open, communication fails.


Depending on your environment, you can choose to modify the ports and protocols used by the Unified Manager server to connect to specific destinations.


The Unified Manager server connects using the following protocols and ports to the managed storage systems, servers, and other components:










Destination
Protocol
Port
Description





Storage system


HTTPS


443/TCP


Used to monitor and manage storage systems.




Storage system


NDMP


10000/TCP


Used for certain Snapshot restore operations.




AutoSupport server


HTTPS


443


Used to send AutoSupport information. Requires the internet access to perform this function.




Authentication server


LDAP


389


Used to make authentication requests, and user and group lookup requests.




LDAPS


636


Used for secure LDAP communication.




Mail server


SMTP


25


Used to send alert notification emails.




SNMP trap sender


SNMPv1 or SNMPv3


162/UDP


Used to send alert notification SNMP traps.




External data provider server


TCP


2003


Used to send performance data to an external data provider, such as Graphite.




NTP server


NTP


123/UDP


Used to synchronize the time on the Unified Manager server with an external NTP time server. (VMware systems only)